website/docs: stages cleanup (#21558)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/user_login/index.md

---
title: User login stage
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

The User Login stage attaches the current `pending_user` to a new authentik session.

## Overview

> This stage is usually the final step in an authentication flow. It can also be used after [User Write](../user_write/index.md) in enrollment or recovery flows when the user should be signed in immediately after the flow succeeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stage is usually the final stage in authentication, enrollment and recovery flows, signing the user in immediately upon success.
```

## Configuration options

- **Session duration**: how long the created session should last. A value of `seconds=0` keeps the session until the browser session ends.
- **Network binding**: optionally bind the session to ASN, network, or IP-derived network information.
- **GeoIP binding**: optionally bind the session to continent, country, or city information.
- **Terminate other sessions**: revoke the user's other active authentik sessions when this stage succeeds.
- **Remember me offset**: extend the session when the user explicitly chooses the remember-me option. A value of `seconds=0` hides the option.
- **Remember device**: store a longer-lived cookie that helps authentik recognize a known device on later sign-ins.

## Flow integration

Use this stage near the end of flows that should create an authenticated browser session.

Common placements include:

> - after [Password](../password/index.md) or [Authenticator Validation](../authenticator_validate/index.md) in authentication flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- after a [Password](../password/index.md) or [Authenticator Validation](../authenticator_validate/index.md) stage in authentication flows
```

> - after [User Write](../user_write/index.md) in enrollment flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- after a [User Write](../user_write/index.md) stage in enrollment flows
```

## Notes

:::warning
Browsers handle session cookies differently. A session configured with `seconds=0` is intended to end when the browser session ends, but some browsers can retain session state longer.
:::

Duration fields use the standard authentik timedelta syntax such as `hours=1,minutes=30,seconds=0`.

All values accept floating-point numbers.

Valid keys in those duration strings include:

- microseconds
- milliseconds
- seconds
- minutes
- hours
- days
- weeks

> - If **Remember me offset** is greater than `seconds=0`, authentik shows the user a remember-me choice during login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If **Remember me offset** is greater than `seconds=0`, authentik shows the user a **Remember me on this device** option during login.
```

}
```

> For alerting and policy use, authentik can also classify a login as coming from a known or unknown device based on the remember-device cookie and related session information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For alerting and policy use, authentik can also classify a login as coming from a known or unknown device based on the "Remember me on this device" cookie and related session information.
```
